---
layout: post
title: Statement of Purpose
date: 2023-5-7 02:30:00-0800
inline: false
---

### 1 Motivation

Pursuing a Ph.D. in Computer Science is my ultimate decision after a dynamic exploration.

Born into a family where both my father and grandfather were chemistry professionals, I naturally chose chemistry as my major upon entering university. I enjoyed conducting enchanting chemical experiments while one thought kept haunting me: why do similar reactions undergo vastly different mechanisms, and why have we not been able to establish a general pattern of chemical reactions?

Through in-depth literature exploration, I discovered that computer science techniques, especially machine learning, played a pivotal role in explaining chemical reactions. To resolve my doubts, I began taking computer science courses and soon became fascinated by this powerful and logic-driven discipline, my fervent interest in deep learning has driven me to make the resolute decision to transition to computer science.

### 2 Research Experience

My research interest arose from the limitations within computational chemistry models. Their inability to adapt to outliers and out-of-sample data is a significant concern. I soon realized that all machine learning models suffer from a lack of robustness to a certain extent. To address my concerns, I participated in the College Students Innovation Training Project, where fellow students shared research experiences through seminars. During my participation, I observed that Vision Transformers tend to excessively exploit features within each patch. Previous studies have confirmed this phenomenon. To further investigate the effects of different adversarial attacks on ViTs, I applied the one-pixel attack technique to ViT models. Distinguishing from conventional one-pixel attacks, I divided the input image into 16 patches and conducted attacks on each individual patch, generating corresponding adversarial examples. I also compare the performance of adversarial attack on both ViTs ans CNNs. Despite my efforts, the outcomes did not result in a significant decrease in ViT models’ accuracy. However, this experience was crucial in my learning journey. It taught me how to pose precise research questions and execute experiments. By the end of the project, my fluency in basic machine learning and research methods marked my first step toward my goals, emphasizing the importance of mentorship and the possibility of progress with proper guidance.

My passion for robust machine learning led me to join the Intelligent Robotics and Vision Lab (IRVL) at University of Texas at Dallas, focused on the robustness of robotic arms. During my time here, I am adviced by Professor Yang and Professor Xiang. During my time here, I revamped non-differentiable operations within the original system, including substituting the existing camera with a differentiable neural network renderer. This change allowed gradient propagation across the entire system, from the differentiable renderer’s neural network to the DQN network used for robotic arm decision-making. Through rigorous training, I ensured that this system maintained consistent performance with the baseline. Drawing on my previous research experience, I treated the entire system as a unified Multilayer Perceptron and employed FGSM and PGD algorithms to generate adversarial examples targeting object pose and shape. Our experiments, focused on single-object grasping tasks, revealed a significant decrease in the success rates of grasping for most objects. Cases where the success rates remained unchanged were primarily objects with inherently low grasping success rates even without attacks. In this project, I implemented algorithms, honing my engineering skills and deepening my interest in similar endeavors.Our findings have been consolidated into a preprint, and we plan to submit our work to a conference shortly. This experience not only enhanced my technical abilities but also nurtured my passion for tackling challenges in the field of robust machine learning.

Another interpretation of robustness is generalization ability. During my time in Professor Li’s computational chemistry lab, I investigated the application of machine learning models in reaction prediction. Specifically, I had the opportunity to explore the use of pretrained transformers for computational chemistry. Utilizing a established workflow, I collaborated with experimentalists and finetuned the model on a small size dataset, focused on enhancing their performance in Buchwald-Hartwig coupling reactions. Our model has demonstrated strong performance in yield and condition prediction. To strengthen the persuasiveness of our methodology, we plan to conduct experiments on additional chemical reactions and come up with a general model that predict general C-N coupling reactions.


### 3 Future Plans

When I finish my undergraduate studies next spring at Dalian University of Technology, I will graduate not only with a interdisciplinary horizons but with an unforgettable 2-year academic and research experience that has put me well on my way to realizing my vision of robust machine learning. I want to highlight my unique journey in computer science. Despite not having a major in this field, I have faced and conquered numerous challenges, demonstrating my capability as a student and researcher. I am proud of my achievements and see my non-traditional background not as a flaw, but a feature. Through perseverance, I have proven my ability to excel in computer science research, making me even more determined to pursue further studies in this domain.

Standing in the intersection of learning and robustness study, I believe the artificial intelligence research in our time has come to a turning point. I want build next-generation machine learning algorithms for interdisciplinaries fields that are both intelligent and trustworthy. Thus, I have realized that in order to pursue these answers and my career goal of becoming a professor, I must continue to grow as an explorer and researcher by enrolling in a PhD program. By attending graduate school, I will seek opportunities in research and academia that enable me to explore fields not limited to my own and contribute back to them. In addition, I am determined to increase my own understanding in CS and to develop my ability to pass that understanding onto others. With my unique background, I hope I can be as educational and inspiring as my own professors and mentors in the future