---
layout: post
title:  Database Chapter 6
date:   2023-05-20 08:00:00
description: 
tags: Lecture_Notes 
categories: Database Transaction
---

## Transaction

The ACID properties describe the key characteristics of a transaction in a database management system. Here's the description of each ACID property:

1. Atomicity:
   Atomicity ensures that a transaction is treated as a single, indivisible unit of work. It guarantees that either all the changes made within a transaction are committed and become permanent, or none of them are applied at all. If any part of the transaction fails, the entire transaction is rolled back, and the database remains unchanged.

2. Consistency:
   Consistency ensures that a transaction brings the database from one valid state to another valid state. It enforces integrity constraints and rules defined on the database, ensuring that data modifications made within a transaction maintain the overall correctness and validity of the database.

3. Isolation:
   Isolation ensures that each transaction is executed independently and in isolation from other concurrent transactions. It prevents interference and maintains data integrity by ensuring that changes made by one transaction are not visible to other transactions until they are committed.

4. Durability:
   Durability guarantees that once a transaction is committed and the changes are made permanent, they will persist even in the event of system failures or crashes. The changes made by a committed transaction are stored and can be recovered in the face of any subsequent failures.

These ACID properties collectively provide reliability, integrity, and consistency to database transactions, ensuring that data remains in a valid and reliable state.

```sql
START TRANSACTION;

COMMIT;

ROLLBACK;
```

```sql
START TRANSACTION;

-- check balance
SELECT balance FROM accounts WHERE account_number = '123' FOR UPDATE;
-- if not, roll back
IF balance < 1000 THEN
    ROLLBACK;
    SELECT 'Insufficient balance' AS result;
ELSE
    -- update balance
    UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance - 1000 WHERE account_number = '123';

    -- update balance 
    UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance + 1000 WHERE account_number = '456';

    -- commit
    COMMIT;
    SELECT 'Transfer successful' AS result;
END IF;

```

## View

In MySQL, a view is a virtual table that is created based on the result of a query on one or more tables. A view does not store data itself; it is defined by a query that retrieves data from underlying tables. Views can simplify complex queries and provide an abstraction layer, hiding the complexity of underlying tables.

Creating a view:
In MySQL, you can use the `CREATE VIEW` statement to create a view. Here is the basic syntax:

```sql
CREATE VIEW view_name AS
SELECT column1, column2, ...
FROM table_name
WHERE condition;
```

In the syntax above, `view_name` is the name of the view, `column1, column2, ...` are the columns to be selected in the view, `table_name` is the base table(s) for the view, and `condition` is an optional filtering condition for the view.

Advantages of views:

- Simplify complex queries: Views can simplify complex query operations by creating a simplified logical layer on top of the underlying tables. They encapsulate the complexity of the query, making it easier to work with and understand.
- Provide data security: Views can restrict user access to tables, exposing only specific columns or rows, enhancing the security of sensitive data.
- Promote data consistency and reuse: Views allow you to define a query once and reuse it in multiple places, ensuring data consistency and promoting code reuse.
- Hide table structure changes: By using views, you can hide changes in the underlying table structure. Views provide an abstraction layer that shields users from the details of table changes, ensuring that the view remains intact even if the underlying tables change.

Disadvantages of views:

- Performance impact: Views are based on queries and may incur a performance cost as the underlying query needs to be executed every time the view is accessed.
- Update limitations: Most views are read-only, and direct insert, update, or delete operations on views are often not possible. Updating a view typically requires updating the underlying tables.
- Memory consumption: Each view occupies memory, and creating too many views can increase memory usage.

The decision to use views should be based on specific database design and query requirements. Views offer advantages in simplifying queries, providing security, and promoting data consistency, but they may have performance implications and limitations on updates.

## Index

```sql
CREATE INDEX index_name ON table_name (column1, column2, ...);
```

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name ADD INDEX index_name(column1, column2, ...)
```

```sql
DROP INDEX index_name ON table_name;
```

```sql
SELECT * FROM your_table_name LIMIT 5 OFFSET 40;
```

Advantages of indexes:

- Speed up queries: Indexes can significantly reduce database lookup time by quickly locating data rows that match index values without scanning the entire table.
- Improve data retrieval efficiency: Indexes can reduce disk IO operations, thereby improving data retrieval efficiency.
- Support unique constraints: unique constraints can be created on the index to ensure that the value of the index column is unique.

Disadvantages of indexes:

- Occupied storage space: Indexes need to occupy additional storage space to store the index structure.
- Increased data insertion and update costs: When inserting, updating, and deleting operations on tables, indexes need to be maintained and updated, which may lead to performance degradation.
- Indexes are not suitable for all queries: some queries may not use indexes and require full table scans instead.